CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Before Contributing

When contributing to this repository, please first discuss the change you wish to make via issue,
email, or any other method with the owners of this repository before making a change. The best way is our Slack channel (link at the footer of CapRover.com)

Please note we have a code of conduct, please follow it in all your interactions with the project.

## IMPORTANT: CapRover Goals & Scope

Since the birth of CapRover, there has been many contributions and suggestions that shaped CapRover as we know it today. One of the very important factor in the contribution you make is to stick with CapRover design philosophy.- CapRover is not an enterprise grade application like Kubernetes. _Do not_ patch it with half-done features that make it look like one - it will eventually fail as we don't have resources to support such features.- CapRover scope is a helper around Docker, nginx and Let's Encrypt.

The goal is to make the common use-cases exposed via simple controls on UI while allowing further customizations to be done through hooks and scripts. If a new feature is doable via the existing features, or a basic tool, do not add it to CapRover. We do not want to bloat this application. One example is: "Add a flag to customize the placement constraints of containers". This is definitely doable in Docker, but we don't want to mirror every single functionality of Docker to CapRover. If we do that, CapRover becomes a very hard to maintain project. Instead we should add customization hooks for these advanced and rare use cases. For example, instead of mirroring every single nginx config, we added the ability of customizing the nginx config for advanced users.- Last but not least AVOID LARGE PULL REQUESTS at all cost as they won't get reviewed unless they are discussed in the Slack channel beforehand.

## Pull Request Process

1. IF APPLICABLE: Update the docs (https://github.com/caprover/caprover-website) with details of changes to the interface, this includes new environment
   variables, exposed ports, useful file locations and container parameters.
2. Make sure your commit comments are self explanatory.
3. Discuss the changes you want to make beforehand.
4. Please avoid making opinion-based changes if it's just a code-style change - this includes, but not limited to, changes to how we work with promises, class inheritence and etc.
5. To keep the process simple with just a few contributors, development happens directly on the master branch
   and releases will be deployed on the same branch.
6. By creating a Pull Request, you agree to all terms in https://github.com/caprover/caprover/blob/master/contrib.md

### Running backend dev environment

First, you need a Captain instance running in debug mode, this can be a remote server, a VM on your local machine,
or your local machine itself. Needless to say, Docker is required (same minimum version as mentioned in README). Ubuntu is the best dev environment for CapRover.

> Docker for Mac users: You need to add `/captain` to shared paths.  
> To do so, click on the Docker icon -> Preferences -> Ressources -> File Sharing and add `/captain`
> This is not possible in Catalina or above versions. You can try your luck by changing `CAPTAIN_BASE_DIRECTORY` in `src/utils/CaptainConstants.ts` and in `dev-scripts/dev-clean-run-as-dev.sh` but it might be best to develop in a linux VM for best results.

Log in to your machine, clone the git repo and run the following lines:

```bash
$   npm install
$   npm run build
$   ./dev-scripts/dev-clean-run-as-dev.sh
```

You are good to go! You can run the following line to see the logs for the back-end service.

```bash
npm run dev
```

The main differences between the release and debug mode are:

-   docker image is created from the local source file, instead of getting pulled from Docker hub
-   security is much weaker is debug due to a static salt
-   self health monitoring is disabled in debug so that we can see possible crashes
-   same origin policy is disabled in debug mode to make front end development easier
-   an additional endpoint is available at `/force-exit` which force restarts the backend service
-   static resources (including front end app) are not being served in debug build.

Captain by default uses `captain.localhost` as its root domain. It's not always needed, but if you need a root
domain for your development, you can simply run a local DNS server on your local machine and point
`*.captain.localhost` (wild card domain) to your local IP. A simple `hosts` change won't be useful as we need a wildcard entry.

On ubuntu 16, it's as simple of editing this file:
`/etc/NetworkManager/dnsmasq.d/dnsmasq-localhost.conf` (create if does not exist)
And add this line to it: `address=/captain.localhost/192.168.1.2` where `192.168.1.2` is your local IP address.
To make sure you have dnsmasq, you can run `which dnsmasq` on your terminal, if it's available,
path of it will be printed on the terminal, otherwise, there won't be anything printed on your terminal.

To test the API, you can import the Postman collection JSON in `./dev-scripts` directory.

### front end development:

See https://github.com/caprover/caprover-frontend

### CLI development:

See https://github.com/caprover/caprover-cli

### Backend development:

Start the debug build for the backend service as explained above. To see any changes you make,
first save the changes, then you need to restart the service either by sending a request to `/force-exit` endpoint,
or by running `npm run dev`.

### Security Issues

Security issues are high priority and they will be addressed immediately. If you find a security issue, please do not post as a public issue, instead, please email it to us: security at caprover dot com.

## Code of Conduct

### Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience,
nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and
orientation.

### Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment
include:

-   Using welcoming and inclusive language
-   Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
-   Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
-   Focusing on what is best for the community
-   Showing empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

-   The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or
    advances
-   Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
-   Public or private harassment
-   Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic
    address, without explicit permission
-   Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
    professional setting

### Our Responsibilities

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable
behavior and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in
response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or
reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions
that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or
permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate,
threatening, offensive, or harmful.

### Scope

This Code of Conduct applies both within project spaces and in public spaces
when an individual is representing the project or its community. Examples of
representing a project or community include using an official project e-mail
address, posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed
representative at an online or offline event. Representation of a project may be
further defined and clarified by project maintainers.

### Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
reported by contacting the project team. All
complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that
is deemed necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. The project team is
obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard to the reporter of an incident.
Further details of specific enforcement policies may be posted separately.

Project maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good
faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other
members of the project's leadership.

### Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant][homepage], version 1.4,
available at [http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4][version]

[homepage]: http://contributor-covenant.org
[version]: http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/

Commit message:

feat(macOs): add support for macOs Catalina and above

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Before Contributing

When contributing to this repository, please first discuss the change you wish to make via issue,
email, or any other method with the owners of this repository before making a change. The best way is our Slack channel (link at the footer of CapRover.com)

Please note we have a code of conduct, please follow it in all your interactions with the project.

## IMPORTANT: CapRover Goals & Scope

Since the birth of CapRover, there has been many contributions and suggestions that shaped CapRover as we know it today. One of the very important factor in the contribution you make is to stick with CapRover design philosophy.- CapRover is not an enterprise grade application like Kubernetes. _Do not_ patch it with half-done features that make it look like one - it will eventually fail as we don't have resources to support such features.- CapRover scope is a helper around Docker, nginx and Let's Encrypt.

The goal is to make the common use-cases exposed via simple controls on UI while allowing further customizations to be done through hooks and scripts. If a new feature is doable via the existing features, or a basic tool, do not add it to CapRover. We do not want to bloat this application. One example is: "Add a flag to customize the placement constraints of containers". This is definitely doable in Docker, but we don't want to mirror every single functionality of Docker to CapRover. If we do that, CapRover becomes a very hard to maintain project. Instead we should add customization hooks for these advanced and rare use cases. For example, instead of mirroring every single nginx config, we added the ability of customizing the nginx config for advanced users.- Last but not least AVOID LARGE PULL REQUESTS at all cost as they won't get reviewed unless they are discussed in the Slack channel beforehand.

## Pull Request Process

1. IF APPLICABLE: Update the docs (https://github.com/caprover/caprover-website) with details of changes to the interface, this includes new environment
   variables, exposed ports, useful file locations and container parameters.
2. Make sure your commit comments are self explanatory.
3. Discuss the changes you want to make beforehand.
4. Please avoid making opinion-based changes if it's just a code-style change - this includes, but not limited to, changes to how we work with promises, class inheritence and etc.
5. To keep the process simple with just a few contributors, development happens directly on the master branch
   and releases will be deployed on the same branch.
6. By creating a Pull Request, you agree to all terms in https://github.com/caprover/caprover/blob/master/contrib.md

### Running backend dev environment

First, you need a Captain instance running in debug mode, this can be a remote server, a VM on your local machine,
or your local machine itself. Needless to say, Docker is required (same minimum version as mentioned in README). Ubuntu is the best dev environment for CapRover.

Log in to your machine, clone the git repo and run the following lines:
#### On Linux and Windows
```bash
$   npm install
$   npm run build
$   sudo ./dev-scripts/dev-clean-run-as-dev.sh
```

You are good to go! You can run the following line to see the logs for the back-end service.

```bash
npm run dev
```

#### On macOs
##### Prepare your system (for Catalina and above)
Because of security restriction we have more step to apply on macOs.
Create a folder wherever you want (for me it will be /opt/captain).
Link this folder to the root folder (Apple does not allow to create folder on the root but you can do it with a symb link by adding the file in `/etc/synthetic.conf` [see](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58396821/what-is-the-proper-way-to-create-a-root-sym-link-in-catalina))
(don't panic id the file does not exist, if you create it will work well.)
1) `sudo vi /etc/synthetic.conf`
2) add `captain opt/captain` into this file (note this is a tab and not a space ((Ctrl-V + Tab) character))
3) reboot
4) Prepare your docker system

##### Prepare your docker (for all macOs User)

> You need to add `/captain` to shared paths.  
> To do so, click on the Docker icon -> Preferences -> Ressources -> File Sharing and add `/captain`

##### 
use node 14 then
```bash
$   npm install
$   npm run build
$   sudo ./dev-scripts/dev-clean-run-as-dev-macos-step-1.sh
$   ./dev-scripts/dev-clean-run-as-dev-macos-step-2.sh
```

The main differences between the release and debug mode are:

-   docker image is created from the local source file, instead of getting pulled from Docker hub
-   security is much weaker is debug due to a static salt
-   self health monitoring is disabled in debug so that we can see possible crashes
-   same origin policy is disabled in debug mode to make front end development easier
-   an additional endpoint is available at `/force-exit` which force restarts the backend service
-   static resources (including front end app) are not being served in debug build.

Captain by default uses `captain.localhost` as its root domain. It's not always needed, but if you need a root
domain for your development, you can simply run a local DNS server on your local machine and point
`*.captain.localhost` (wild card domain) to your local IP. A simple `hosts` change won't be useful as we need a wildcard entry.

On ubuntu 16, it's as simple of editing this file:
`/etc/NetworkManager/dnsmasq.d/dnsmasq-localhost.conf` (create if does not exist)
And add this line to it: `address=/captain.localhost/192.168.1.2` where `192.168.1.2` is your local IP address.
To make sure you have dnsmasq, you can run `which dnsmasq` on your terminal, if it's available,
path of it will be printed on the terminal, otherwise, there won't be anything printed on your terminal.

To test the API, you can import the Postman collection JSON in `./dev-scripts` directory.

### front end development:

See https://github.com/caprover/caprover-frontend

### CLI development:

See https://github.com/caprover/caprover-cli

### Backend development:

Start the debug build for the backend service as explained above. To see any changes you make,
first save the changes, then you need to restart the service either by sending a request to `/force-exit` endpoint,
or by running `npm run dev`.

### Security Issues

Security issues are high priority and they will be addressed immediately. If you find a security issue, please do not post as a public issue, instead, please email it to us: security at caprover dot com.

## Code of Conduct

### Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience,
nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and
orientation.

### Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment
include:

-   Using welcoming and inclusive language
-   Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
-   Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
-   Focusing on what is best for the community
-   Showing empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

-   The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or
    advances
-   Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
-   Public or private harassment
-   Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic
    address, without explicit permission
-   Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
    professional setting

### Our Responsibilities

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable
behavior and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in
response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or
reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions
that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or
permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate,
threatening, offensive, or harmful.

### Scope

This Code of Conduct applies both within project spaces and in public spaces
when an individual is representing the project or its community. Examples of
representing a project or community include using an official project e-mail
address, posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed
representative at an online or offline event. Representation of a project may be
further defined and clarified by project maintainers.

### Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
reported by contacting the project team. All
complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that
is deemed necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. The project team is
obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard to the reporter of an incident.
Further details of specific enforcement policies may be posted separately.

Project maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good
faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other
members of the project's leadership.

### Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant][homepage], version 1.4,
available at [http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4][version]

[homepage]: http://contributor-covenant.org
[version]: http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/
