TERMS_AND_CONDITIONS.md, before:

# Terms & Conditions

_In future versions, this will be added to the installation_

CapRover core is a free and open-source program developed collectively by tens of developers across the world. Use CapRover at your own risk.

Developers of CapRover do their best to prevent bugs and issues through rigorous testing processes and clean code principles. CapRover is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the [License](https://github.com/caprover/caprover/blob/master/LICENSE).

By using CapRover you agree to Terms and Conditions, and the license of CapRover.

### Description of Service:

CapRover core is an open source program and in no way it should be considered a service. It is a free program that you can optionally install on your machine. You are more than welcome to read and understand every bit of this open source program.

CapRover Pro is additional functionality that is provided on top of CapRover core. It is an optional service.

### Our Responsibility

CapRover developers will do their best to ensure that CapRover remains functional and major bugs are resolved quickly. If you have a feature request, you are more than welcome to open a request for it, but the ultimate decision whether or not the feature will be added is taken by CapRover's core developers. Since they will be the ones who have to maintain the feature moving forward. Take a moment and familiarize yourself with our [scope and goals](https://github.com/caprover/caprover/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#important-caprover-goals--scope)

### Analytics

CapRover has built in anonymous usage analytics starting v1.11. CapRover **never** sends any private data, such as env vars, private images, etc. This anonymous information is only used to understand usage patterns of CapRover and optimize the experience for the users. For example, in the future, we will have the possibility to add download counts to one click apps. If you wish to disable anonymous analytics, you can do so by passing an env variable CAPROVER_DISABLE_ANALYTICS=true to CapRover service. In the future, we will use this information to find out which one click apps are popular, whether or not we should focus on supporting multiple nodes (percentage of single node vs multi node), whether or not we should invest in supporting multi CPU clusters, and etc.

### Future changes

Terms of Service / Terms & Conditions may change at any point without a prior notice.

Commit message:

1.11.1 hotfix (#1886)
* Update CHANGELOG.md

* Update TERMS_AND_CONDITIONS.md

* Update TERMS_AND_CONDITIONS.md

* Adding script to clear pro config

* Fixed https://github.com/caprover/caprover/issues/1863

* Closes https://github.com/caprover/caprover-pro/issues/3

* Updated the changelog

* Fixed https://github.com/caprover/caprover/discussions/1859

* updated the changelogs

* Fixed https://github.com/caprover/caprover/issues/1871

* Upped version - ready for hotfix

TERMS_AND_CONDITIONS.md, after:

# Terms & Conditions

_In future versions, this will be added to the installation_

CapRover core is a free and open-source program developed collectively by tens of developers across the world. Use CapRover at your own risk.

Developers of CapRover do their best to prevent bugs and issues through rigorous testing processes and clean code principles. CapRover is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the [License](https://github.com/caprover/caprover/blob/master/LICENSE).

By using CapRover you agree to Terms and Conditions, and the license of CapRover.

### Description of Service:

CapRover core is an open source program and in no way it should be considered a service. It is a free program that you can optionally install on your machine. You are more than welcome to read and understand every bit of this open source program.

CapRover Pro is additional functionality that is provided on top of CapRover core. It is an optional service.

### Our Responsibility

CapRover developers will do their best to ensure that CapRover remains functional and major bugs are resolved quickly. If you have a feature request, you are more than welcome to open a request for it, but the ultimate decision whether or not the feature will be added is taken by CapRover's core developers. Since they will be the ones who have to maintain the feature moving forward. Take a moment and familiarize yourself with our [scope and goals](https://github.com/caprover/caprover/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#important-caprover-goals--scope)

### Analytics

CapRover has built in anonymous usage analytics starting v1.11. CapRover **never** sends any private data, such as env vars, private images, etc. This anonymous information is only used to understand usage patterns of CapRover and optimize the experience for the users. For example, in the future, we will have the possibility to add download counts to one click apps. If you wish to disable anonymous analytics, you can do so by passing an env variable CAPROVER_DISABLE_ANALYTICS=true to CapRover service. You can add this to the installation line, or use `docker service update --env-add CAPROVER_DISABLE_ANALYTICS=true captain-captain` for an existing service. In the future, we will use this information to find out which one click apps are popular, whether or not we should focus on supporting multiple nodes (percentage of single node vs multi node), whether or not we should invest in supporting multi CPU clusters, and etc. Here is [the link](https://github.com/caprover/caprover/blob/master/src/user/events/emitter/AnalyticsLogger.ts#L22-L25) to all analytics events that CapRover collects.

### Future changes

Terms of Service / Terms & Conditions may change at any point without a prior notice.
